A simple random waypoint mobility module for OMNeT++

= Introduction =

The RandomWaypointMobility module implements the random waypoint mobility model, described further below. It is derived from the !BasicMobility base mobility class of the [MobilityFramework Mobility Framework] and can easily be substituted into existing simulations using any !BasicMobility-derived mobility modules.


= The random waypoint mobility model =

Random waypoint is a simple mobility model, but nevertheless one which has been widely used in mobility research. It works as follows:
  #  A node is initialized at a uniformly distributed location within a fixed boundary.
  #  The node picks a new waypoint after an optional pause, which is also selected from a random distribution.
  #  The node navigates towards this point, interpolating a new position at each discrete update.
  #  Upon arriving a the new location, the node selects a new waypoint, optionally waiting before starting its journey towards the new location.
This process is repeated for the duration of the simulation.

The accuracy of the random waypoint model has recently been called into 
question in a number of articles, e.g. (NAV04,BET03,YOO03). It is nevertheless a de-facto reference mobility model and well worth exploring for some applications
Navidi and Camp provide a number of guidelines (NAV04) for initializing the nodes to
be consistent with the expected steady state distribution, which increases the accuracy of the simulation. This implemenation follows those guidelines, although the initial paused state distribution suggested is not presently implemented.

The velocity and pause times in rwpy are drawn from a truncated normal distribution.
The zero speed problem is addressed using a minimum speed, which is presently
fixed at 0.5 m/s. Otherwise, a number of stuck nodes (ones with zero or very
low velocity) is expected during a prolonged simulation.

=== References ===

*NAV04* Navidi, W. & Camp, T. Stationary Distributions for the Random Waypoint Mobility Model. IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 2004, 3, pp. 99-108

*BET03* Bettstetter, C.; Resta, G. & Santi, P. The Node Distribution of the Random Waypoint Mobility Model for Wireless Ad Hoc Networks. IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, 2003, 2, pp. 257-269

*YOO03* Yoon, J.; Liu, M. & Noble, B. Random Waypoint Considered Harmful. Proceedings of INFOCOM. IEEE, 2003